---
layout: trip-report
title: "Mt. Adams"
---


Mark and I left Seattle around 2pm on Friday to drive down to Vancouver where we would ride with Ainsley to the trailhead in Trout Lake. The 3 hour drive took over 4.5 hours due to summer traffic (I guess) so we didn't get to the trailhead until ~9:30 pm. We were able to get a spot at the sprawling trailhead despite the crowds of vehicles there which reminded us of the madhouse at MSH. The weather was quite warm which almost enticed mark into shorts but sitting for a few hours got us cold enough to warrant long layers. 

Mark taught us how to play Durak, a Russian card game somewhat like Euchre (maybe just that it has a trump suit) but without all of the team aspects, and we relaxed for a bit until approximately 11 when Ainsley and I tried to get some sleep. 

With the forecast looking like wind increasing throughout Saturday and the summit low being only 37F, we decided earlier would be better than later as we weren't sure the snow would freeze enough for easy travel. As such we opted to wake up at midnight and start between then and one. We left the trailhead at 12:35 and started the hike up. With the full moon out, I opted to leave my headlamp in my pack. 

Moving quickly made us warm so mark and I went shirtless for the first ~2.5hrs. We reached snow about a mile to a mile and a half in and it was frozen nice and solid which made us happy about our decision to leave snowshoes in the car and Mark's decision to bring ski crampons. He put on his skis once the snow got continuous and Ainsley and I put on our crampons. 

We continued up, getting mixed up slightly in the split between south climb and Suksdorf Ridge, ending up on the latter when we thought we aimed for the former. This ended up well as the climb was still straightforward and clearly marked with a wide swath of bootprints. 

I was feeling remarkably good for this early in a climb: my head was tired, my stomach was not 100% but fine, my calves felt a little used but not bad, and my heart rate was relatively low. Maybe there is a lesson to be learned about pacing...

We made it up to Lunch Counter where the wind really started to pick up so we layered up and continued on. Ainsley and I were feeling good with crampons and the snow was really solid for them but Mark was struggling a bit even with the ski crampons (but would have had to been booting most of the way if not for them so was thankful to have them). 

When we saw the glimpse of the climb up to Piker's Peak, Mark got quite demoralized but I appreciated the straightforward looking climb up another few thousand feet. We went at our own paces up it and waited at the top trying to hide on the lee side of a small rock outcropping that was not doing a ton to block the wind. Ainsley ended up waiting ~30 mins and I waited ~15 for Mark to reach us there.

We continued down the col and back up the slope to the summit, once again going our own paces, and once again with Ainsley arriving 15 minutes before me and me arriving 15 minutes before Mark. Ainsley made it in under 6 hours from the trailhead, Mark made the top by 7am.

I had started to get an altitude headache and stopped for caffeine and Tylenol which helped to make the headache only appear when I exerted myself too much (walked more than 10 steps in a row), so I took it slow up the final ascent. There were a few groups before us and one left before Mark arrived. I checked the topo and made sure we walked the 500' over to the true summit (which had no signs of the wooden structure I've seen in others' pictures - maybe covered in snow?) before returning to the top of the climb where we exchanged a few group photos. 

The summit had great 360 degree views of Hood (which we had seen in silhouette from the full moon earlier), Jefferson, the sisters (at least two of them), Rainier, St. Helens, and a glimpse of Glacier, plus the rest of the landscape bathed in sun rays peaking through the clouds high above (~20-30kft probably). It was also remarkably less windy than Pikers Peak which was a nice respite. 

We returned down to the bottom of the valley between the summit and Piker's Peak and I attempted to glissade by sticking my feet through holes in a contractor bag (without crampons of course) and was able to make a few short runs but had to arrest quickly as the surface was quite icy and steep. I noticed a section with a breakable crust so plunge stepped down to the col in that. 


We returned down towards the Lunch Counter, I started trying to glissade at the top of Piker's Peak but it was even steeper and icier (maybe due to the wind?) and so I decided to put my crampons on (it felt very sketchy to do in the icy steep top section but nothing went wrong). About halfway down it started to soften up and the sun was peaking out from behind the clouds so I took off my crampons again and had some really bumpy glissades down to the Lunch Counter. I took it slowly and learned that it takes a lot of upper body strength to dig into icy snow with the spike. By the last chute, I was confident and able to not just brake the whole way with my ice axe.  Mark found some enjoyable skiing conditions near the bottom as well. 

From the lunch counter, the sun was out and bright so I used my buff and sunglasses to cover my face which worked pretty well, only a little redness on my face. I gave sunscreen to Mark who was wearing a T shirt. We then walked and glissaded where we could down to the end of the snow where Mark doffed his skis and boots and mounted them once again to his pack to hike to the car. 


Overall I’d describe it as a really nice slog. I felt good and we went slowly which helped. Only the last ~1500’ (around pikers) did I get bad altitude sickness. Headache and having to slow down like normal. Tylenol and caffeine helped. Having gotten sleep would have helped. 
